---
title: Introduction to Natural Language Processing
updated: 2017-07-27 23:34
---

# Table of Contents:
- [What is NLP?](#intro-nlp)
- [Some linguistic terminology](#nlp-terms)
- [Why is NLP difficult?](#why)
- [Applications](#applications)

<div class="divider"></div>

### What is NLP? {#intro-nlp}

Natural language processing (NLP) can be defined as the automatic (orsemi-automatic) processing of human language.[^1]


### Why is NLP difficult? {#why}

NLP is challenging because humans traditionally interact with computers using a structural or programming language which is precise and unambiguous. Human speech, however, is often ambiguous and the linguistic structure can vary on many different complex variables, including slang, regional dialects and social context.

> When people talk to each other, they never say what they mean. They say something else and you're expected to just know what they mean. - The Imitation Game

### Applications {#applications}
There are plenty of NLP tasks in software programs today including:
- Named entity recognition and extraction using in social listening to watch customers' comments on branch products
- Text classification such as news topic classification to automatically classify a news article
- Text summarization also be used in news to summary a brief today news or a report
- Dialogue and other natural language understanding problems for building a virtual agent dealing with customer service



### References:

[^1]: [Cambridge natural language processing - lecture 1](https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/teaching/2002/NatLangProc/revised.pdf)



